so this is my first introduction to
nihilism and I always imagined it was
more of the view that life is
meaningless so you know get up on
the weekends like just do you know don't
you see there's a leaf between those two
ideas baby let's get up those are
two very separate philosophical yeah yes
I absolutely see that but I mean it
wasn't that obvious
Banas Yin he did not think of himself as
it as Annihilus but it's the same kind
of thing of you know well I've debunked
Santa Claus therefore I can drink
whiskey every day after 4 p.m. these are
not related it's true San exists what
you do after 4 p.m. is up to you
Santa Claus is no longer watching what
you do after 4 p.m. so there's even more
responsibility on you and you alone
without Santa Clauses guidance without
consequence Santa Claus to decide what
you're doing after 4 p.m.
but whether or not it's drinking whiskey
[Music]
baddest yen recently and a video we
recorded about I think the title is stop
treating Native Americans like infants
uh-huh
one of my least popular videos yeah you
said that you were raised with two
parents who are both atheist and they
encouraged you to go to church services
you did attend some churches and dogs
and other stuff like that yeah sure
right yeah so I was raised Christian by
my parents I was I went through
confirmation in the Lutheran Church when
I was 12 or 13 so I went through this
this class where I was a confirmed
believer in Jesus and you know I was
baptized he gave you your official get
into heaven card yes yep yep
card-carrying heaven applicant I guess
yeah all right so that's just like the
context of I'm going to describe so when
I was growing up I had a friend who we
met in choir but that's really the only
reason why we were friends we were both
in the same choir and this choir went on
a three-week tour of Italy so you know I
got to know this guy and he was like the
polar opposite of me I knew that I never
heard this story before and have no idea
where that's going any preparation he
already good yeah yeah so he was just he
had a rebellious nature and he was very
outgoing everybody knew and like he he
was in multiple bands he played music
he's saying and he was just you know he
was just he just had an aura about him
right a lot of people like he seemed
like he could be a cult leader basically
like his he really inspired like many
many kids to do the same things as he
did I knew that he liked
I knew that he did drugs like I knew
that he was sexually acted like I knew
that he had like you know he was he was
really mature for his age so anyway the
reason why I bring this up is because he
proclaimed himself as Annihilus and so
that was this was the first introduction
I had to nihilism I really didn't know
what it was about but I knew that he
like really liked Nietzsche and I knew
this was a been age 15 or something yeah
yeah so this was my first introduction
to nihilism and I always imagined it was
more of the view that life is
meaningless so you know get up on
the weekends like just do you know don't
you see there's a leap between those two
ideas those are two very philosophical
yeah yes I absolutely see that but I
mean it wasn't that obvious these are
two separate they're gone right it
wasn't you know I I didn't write
research philosophy on my own I didn't
do any reading I just knew that this
that nihilism was something that you
know and kind of like his band of
followers were also vaguely nihilist and
also Buddhism this this is my first
interaction so yeah my first impression
was that it was really reckless and yeah
yeah so anyway then you know can I pop
in yes you see how the other ministry
but you know so another purely anecdotal
thing I think part of what's going on
there is a lot of people whether they're
raised with it or not they assume that
virtue rests on some belief and then
when that belief gets refuted they think
virtue itself becomes meaningless with a
particular virtue becomes meaningless
and I have an example this with one of
my former bosses now I'm gonna try to
keep this anonymous because the nature
of the anecdotes is somewhat salacious
saying I hope you can figure out who I'm
talking about for it easily so one of my
bosses one of my employers I he grew up
at least culturally Christian I guess
you'd say you know celebrating Christmas
and Easter but not a
lever and both of his parents had I had
lost their faith in I don't know how it
shows its extreme historical
circumstances but anyway but
nevertheless grew up around in Christian
culture and so on and you know when he
reached a certain age he decided as I
see some young men of the Internet today
he decided that the assumptions around
him in his culture were all a lie and
that therefore you know very
specifically and especially you know
laws and moral expectations surrounding
sexual behavior we're all world nonsense
and that therefore it was perfectly all
right to sleep with prostitutes which he
did in large quantities for the rest of
his life and when he met me and you know
I mean he'd been through his whole life
obviously challenging others and being
challenging us I mean his views on
sexuality you can be around atheists who
do not think it's cool to sleep with
prostitutes you can be around people of
all different you know religious and
moral characters who you know say what's
what's the matter with you you know in
effect you know unjust or also people
who just surprised and asked you know
why don't you have a girlfriend or why
don't you choose to live to live some
other way and when he talked to me I
think I can say in layman's terms you
know it it him up because I think
I was the first person to challenge his
assumptions without taking any of the
traditional moral high-ground that he
was accustomed to dismissing or well you
know what he felt he had grown out of in
childhood so he at one point I mean at
various points that I'd already knew
before this particular conversation of
what his position was on human sexuality
and morality and what have you he did
not think of himself as a nihilist but
it's the same kind of thing of you know
well I've debunked Santa Claus therefore
I can drink whiskey every day after 4
p.m. these are not related it's true
exist what you do after 4 p.m. is up to
you Santa Claus is no longer watching
what you do after 4 p.m. so there's even
more responsibility on you and you alone
without Santa Clauses guidance without
consequence Santa Claus to decide what
you're doing after 4 p.m.
but whether or not it's drinking whiskey
I mean it's like God is like a like a
parental figure for a lot of people
right right forcing them to behave you
know and all of those objective moral
standards like you know a lot of people
here in Asia including China inclusive
the instead of a specific God it was
often a vague sense of the ghosts of
your ancestors but they watched you like
Santa Claus your deceased grandparents
and great-grandparents were watching you
and expecting you to get married and
have kids and live up to a certain moral
standards it was more permissive than
the Christian Bible but still you know
so to say it's not even necessarily a
Christian God you can see that same
pattern playing out of the disembodied
objective moral standard haunting you
right anyway then what happens to the
class sir just finished thing with my
with my boss
he's so when I challenged him I remember
sitting there he alluded to what I
already knew his kind of you know anti
philosophy of why he sleeps with
prostitutes basically or self
justification of why he sleeps apostates
and I remember this particular
conversation i sat there and I said to
him if you have two young men and one of
them openly says to you that he got into
university because he paid bribes he
didn't write the same exams everyone
else did do you regard those two men
equally he said well you know what you
know what do you mean he was really kind
of blown away by this I said you know I
don't have any particular respect for
university education there are a lot of
videos on this channel
criticizing university education my own
experience to deforestation is really
negative ersity student today this is
the big-deal mode but nevertheless i
said i don't believe in the university
but if i know two guys and i know that
one only gone into university because he
cheated because he paid a bribe I regard
him differently than the other people
who went through the went through the
process you know I don't have to believe
it's virtuous to do well on your courses
and then the next point was you know in
terms of your actual grades in terms of
graduate in terms what you achieved in
university if I know that you paid
bribes if I know that you bought an A+
instead of earning it I don't even have
to believe that earning it is good
to have a valorized fetish each what I
mean I'll have to believe to believe
that buying it is bad you know I mean
and you could see where I was trying
into this I said you know I don't have
to believe in a Christian sexual
morality for me to see that you paying
someone to pretend to be your girlfriend
is different from having someone who
actually loves you and it's your
girlfriend whatever it is you have to do
to earn that which is again a very
nebulous con what does it mean to earn
an a-plus it's actually pretty nebulous
from my perspective at least there is no
simple sense of what you earn having a
girlfriend but loving someone and being
loved by them and having sex whatever
even having an authentic one-night stand
I mean it's not prostitution you didn't
pay for it it's not phony virtue you
know anyway I had other examples after
that but that was the first one and he
had never thought in those terms at all
and for him it was like there was this
you know Christian moral standard that
he grew up adjacent to at least and then
as soon as that crumbled you know again
it says random as okay there is no Santa
Claus therefore drink whiskey or there
is no God therefore you get involved
with drugs and self-destructive
activities well on really that's more of
a current believers mindset unless you
your current faith is so strong that
your faith is the only thing preventing
you from acts of wanton self-destruction
you from drinking alcohol using drugs or
sleeping with prostitutes that makes
sense for someone who is a believer it
doesn't make sense for someone who's not
a believer right it's shallow and it's
deep at the same time okay you'll have
to rewind yes probably I said sounds
like something I'd say yeah yeah yeah I
don't know so I just I just had this was
right no I think it's gonna look at but
look I would they won't even believing
in the university system we
still have questions of virtue about you
know actually doing your course actually
learning and that's ultimately
indirectly what it's about right like
the virtue isn't getting an a-plus the
virtue is learning and now you know well
if you paid bribes if you paid cash on
the table which is a big problem in many
countries in the world if you pain
tribes or let's say you're your father
in the States this is more common your
father is wealthy and he makes a
donation to the University and then the
university knows they have to bend the
rules for you or something
or your uh your hero on the football
team and the sports team lets the
professor's know you know you've got to
get good grades if you didn't earn it
yeah there's still our questions have
virtue here even if I don't believe in
the University I don't believe in
football I don't believe that an a-plus
is actually meaningful sure there are
still there are still questions of
virtue
so virtue doesn't exist or cease to
exist on the basis of faith now if I
really had to get into I've got other
videos in this I can again compare that
to the painter with the painting this is
my standard he's a creative baseline
image for nihilism and value and meaning
of life I don't believe there's anything
inherent in a blank canvas
that's beautiful or meaningful but we
can take some paint and put it on the
canvas and we can create something
that's meaningful and evocative so in
that in that same way yeah what you're
saying is really intelligent and I
really like oh you know I I appreciate
on like your been exposed to since I
know I first saw it when I first started
watching your channel and like just you
know being in a relationship with you
being exposed to this different idea of
nihilism one that doesn't presuppose it
as something that will allow you to
behave recklessly because because life
is meaningless because yeah because this
is this is what I saw you know and this
in this person that I knew well I think
it's - yeah you know in a sense it's not
like I um
you know like it kind of like for a
while like I admired him because I was
just like wow this is just like really a
different
what I was raised with you know I was I
was super anti-drug anti-alcohol even
like in high school I did not drink at
all like I was as you know as I've said
like you know I was like the polar
opposite of him in like every way so but
and the same in this strange way we
could be friends and like I could admire
him and like see a different side of the
story so like you know I appreciated my
friendship with him but I think it gave
me like a different view of nihilism
that that you kind of broke broke that
sure facade sure I mean I think you know
nihilism isn't disillusionment ism you
know what I mean right that's what it
seemed like it right I mean
disillusionment with one set of beliefs
can lead to some other set of behaviors
but I mean you said before I mean you
seem to write down when I said it woke a
the fact that I don't believe Santa
Claus is watching me I mean it's part of
the concept of Santa Clauses he's
watching whether you're good or bad and
then that determines whether or not you
get good presents at the end of the
other whether I should get good
president we been naughty and who's been
nice you know again it doesn't even take
really a profound or adult person to
realize you know wow okay there's nobody
watching me
there's nobody responsible for the
consequences of my actions but me and
then to see that as increasing you know
my role in my importance and so on yeah
I mean on the level of values too like
even if you just think about it being a
conformist versus a nonconformist
because a lot of people don't believe in
the Christian God but they conform to
Christian values or something in a
question way when you realize look these
values are of my choosing and in my
creation like I'm working actually I'm
working from a blank canvas here I'm not
working from a canvas handed down to me
by my grandparents or by the culture I
was born into if I wanted to I could
subscribe to a more Hindu or Buddhist
set of values or none at all or start
from a blank sheet of paper you know but
again that's and that's an even more
awesome responsibility you know there
was this song which is not a great song
called be your own personal Jesus and I
remember I was a child when I first
heard that and you know I I saw
in that way and if you listen to the
lyrics that song it's not what it's
meant to be saying but okay well what if
we do taking our Savoy you say okay well
I've got to be my own Moses I use Moses
I've got to write my own Ten
Commandments or have none or I write
seven of them and then I try to live by
those commitments and I realize they're
flawed and I changed them because
they're not written in stone because
only I wrote them and I'm not tuned in
well that's there's a sense of an
awesome you know personal responsibility
and a very changing set of horizons in
your life that I think comes with
nihilism or any any kind of breakthrough
like that um so I don't I don't see it
as leading to you know drinking alcohol
and self-destructive behavior but on the
other hand I mean something I said to
you before we start this video I said
you know keep in mind I do preach
veganism to people I do tell people they
ought to be vegan I don't tell people
that they they are not less you know
what I mean I don't feel this is
something for everyone or something
we're in a really simple way I can say
you know everyone will benefit from it
um I have a lot of videos one of my
catchphrases here is you know stupidity
is real and I haven't taken any sincere
interest in how stupid people or
extremely stupid people would cope with
this kind of challenge I think that it
and I think that's kind of a legit
question now with that even said I don't
easily or lightly think like well
they're for stupid people should be part
of destructive religions that you know
preach that we should you know be in a
constant state of holy war or something
I mean there's obviously a lot of danger
that comes out of stupid people having
having faith in religion but I think you
know obviously nihilism and historical
nihilism is my personal philosophy a
historical nihilism you really saw that
in the dialogue with with Canada Jen Sam
Kennedy says another youtuber other
people criticize me I think reasonably
by saying that I wasn't sincerely
interested in bringing my argument down
to her level or she could understand it
I'm completely guilty as charged I'm
really not I'm really not interested in
dumbing down and I do I do think she's a
she's a very stupid person and she may
she may have some kind of undiagnosed
learning disability I don't know but
like my school of nihilism historical
nihilism with this big emphasis on
if you want to say it's learning from
history taking history seriously and so
on there are people I think like her who
will never be capable of doing that
they'll never be capable of just sitting
down and looking at oh wow so to use the
same example what is the historical
reality of slavery you know just which
is one example of thousands we can kind
of learn so much about it learn so much
about ourselves learn about the human
condition and politics and everything
and learn about belief systems and
ideologies and how they work another
break or there's a lot we can learn from
from slavery but she's the kind of
person who can't even get on those kind
of first baby steps to you know what I
think of as you know philosophical
nihilism so it's not gonna work for her
but what would that having been said I
look at someone the current have said
sympathetic things and it's like wow
it's really pathetic and really tragic
that you've now converted to Islam that
you've lost the little inch of freedom
of thought and creativity you had in
your life
maybe you didn't have much but that's
all you had and now it's gone because
this faith has taken over your life you
know it's it's very very sad so I don't
say that to dehumanize people but you
know veganism is something for everybody
it's you know and I've said that in
different videos if you really believe
veganism is for everybody that's very
challenging too because that means
veganism is for people who don't agree
with you politically and people come
from different backgrounds and veganism
is for people who are religious who are
Christian or Hindu or with religions
there's there's a lot in that to
challenge me too but I don't I don't
feel nihilism is for everyone and I
think I think your 15 year old friend I
think he probably was the opposite he
probably thought it was no he probably
thought it was for everybody that
everybody should just get rid of their
inhibitions and booze up on Thursday
night or whatever you know yeah yeah I
think so
I think nihilism can be devastating to
some people I think like that the
concepts that there is no sure belief
like there is nothing to believe nothing
to believe in you you know like you know
I became atheist basically like I I lost
my faith when
like when I was in college I didn't
really know what that about you'd be
honest I didn't know what point you
could yeah like when I I guess it was
you know I guess it was like you know I
kind of am under estimating like like
the the sorry I'm so inarticulate about
this at the moment but um how this
friendship or like play played a role in
this like you know um like I said I
admired this person because they were
like the polar opposite of me but it was
still like you know we were in a band
together for like some some school event
so I went over to his house to to
practice to rehearse and it was just
like really just like grody and like you
know like he and his band members were
smoking weed and you know I like I said
I was extreme like I was totally
anti-drug it and I didn't smoke or
anything and I kind of like saw just the
I guess the poverty that like he lived
in dude um and it was kind of I don't
know sorry we don't have to include this
but I think but you know this this kind
of also had an impact on me um you think
that you think that what is like who who
is who is this for like who is this
belief system for like what kind of
people as it people that have been
raised and certain circumstances or not
because you know sorry but you think
that lit a spark for you that led to you
questioning Christianity in a different
way oh no I mean oh yeah and generally
like once I went to college I didn't
attend church every week you know um and
I really was thinking about it more and
you know why am i praying at night why
do I pray every night when I get into
you know like Who am I talking to like
am i talking to anybody you know there
it always been like you've told me
stories about your own kind of
skepticism or semi atheism as a child
yeah but you did actually continue
praying until like early colleges Wow
god I didn't know that yeah but it was
like I think I was in a rebellious phase
when I first started college in a
variety of ways and I you know I didn't
become like it I didn't then like oh you
know it must be nihilism or something
you know when you said before that um
you know you think it would be
devastating for some people to lose
faith or transition a nihilism or
something I have trouble imagining that
but I mean the main form of belief like
real world belief that matters to people
a lot that they they cling to that I've
that I've seen in my life is probably
belief in nation and nationality like
belief that Canada is a great country or
belief in the United States or this this
kind of thing that can mean a lot to
people and you know for me growing up in
Canada Toronto Canada having everyone
constantly telling you that's wrong that
Canada is the best place in the world
and Toronto is the best place in Canada
yeah but you know this this kind of
thing but I'm being constantly told that
Canada is better than the United States
that was the ego trip that's the
comparison that everything Agana was
better and Americans think America is
the greatest country in the world but
it's not and this kind of thing so I
mean you know when you said that like Oh
what would cause people lot of suffering
um you know I see a lot of suffering in
people trying to maintain those
delusions you know like the same way
people trying to justify their own
religion and justify their place in
their religion and justify the you know
the crimes committed in name of the
religion or nettie I see a lot of
suffering in that and even even within
Buddhism we're relatively you know
nonviolent relatively you know religion
doesn't have a kind of obvious sexual
sexual and psychological problems that
you know Islam does terms interfering
with your your normal life it's not
repressive in the same way but still
people trying to justify to themselves
and others you know that this religion
if anything you know I can see a you
know a sense of relief
in escaping from that but I mean I think
probably one that's the most troubling
is nationalism and belief in your nation
and then living without that afterwards
I mean you know just on a really
practical level like during the time
we've been together during the last six
months or eight months you know I've
talked about with you moving to a long
list of countries you know when I talk
about whatever universities in Canada or
education options Canada I'm openly
saying to you like well maybe our time
would be better spent in Germany or New
Zealand or you know like Taiwan this is
kind of amazing long list now you know
like this isn't some kind of you know
ooh tray theoretical 80 nationalism you
know I mean this isn't like a critique
of what's wrong with Canadian problems
which I also do do criticize the throne
Canadian problem but that's you know
that's living with this kind of grim
awareness
well my country is just one country
among many you know maybe it's better
than some other countries in a few
particular ways but then it's worse in
other ways there are advantages and
disadvantages and so on so I mean that's
that's one that definitely haunts me and
causes suffering and so on and it it's
connected to real world you know
questions and definitely just even but
the kind of self confidence of the sort
of stereotype American bumpkin and I've
met a couple of British people like that
to British people who really think that
jolly old England is the best place they
puzzler I do but even if it's just in
that harmless way you can see how that
gives people's lives you know shape and
direction I would not say meaning I
think it oh but it gives their lives
kind of shape and direction that mine
absolutely doesn't have yeah and I'm
left I'm left instead with a very
sincere constant questioning of you know
okay like let's say I'm a painter let's
say I'm a visual artist is my time being
wasted by being a painter in Canada or
in Victoria Canada specifically one
place to get as opposed to being in
Madrid you know the same effort I'm
putting into this art would there be
better outcomes or
audience for it and that's I mean I
think it's a question we should ask
ourselves but I'd say my life is really
drowning in those questions all the time
because of my lack of nationalism and my
negative relationship towards Canadian
nationalism as ideology and in practical
reality so yeah honestly this is just a
response to having say you know we cause
people a lot of suffering in some ways I
don't feel that way at all but that's an
example of something where I can I could
see that coming out of it yeah okay I
guess what I could say for my experience
I don't I don't think it was really I
wouldn't say devastating you know but um
as you said like you know throughout my
younger years like I had questioning
about Christianity the mean the main
thing that really I was questioning um
is the concept of death I think was a
huge part of it um and belief in
Christianity because when he died you
will go to heaven um and I felt this
because when I was growing up my dad was
often very sick and like he was a real
threat like my dad could die like I
don't want him to like die and never
come never like you know have any hurt
to die and cease to exist and you know
like I
I remember just you know lying in bed in
bed thinking about this and really like
examining like is this at all plausible
as this is this really is this just
something made up so that you feel more
comfortable with with um life and death
so I think that was a big part and I I
think it would be devastating to some
people
and I remember like at funerals also
having discussions about it and at the
funeral of one of my grandparents one of
my cousins said like you know I I don't
know if I don't know if Christianity is
you know right about everything but I
might as well believe in
because then when I die I'll go to
heaven you know like I might as well
just kind of go along with it cuz if I
don't believe in it then fine you know
then then I'll be screwed but if I do
believe in it and it's not real then I
won't know the difference
it was just like really strike you know
it was um I think that was in highschool
for me too so ya know it's fun but for
me I don't see that being being
difficult for some people to process
that sure but for me the challenge of
both religion and philosophy and thus
nihilism is you know how am I gonna live
a meaningful life which is you know
different from and similar to the
question of what is the meaning of life
but how am I gonna live a meaningful
life is putting the putting the onus on
me clearly you know you know one again
what's what's the meaning of this blank
canvas as opposed to how am I gonna take
this canvas and make meaningful out of
it and yeah some people including some
you know theories of psychology put a
lot of emphasis on this this
confrontation with death but I've you
know I've never really been risk-averse
that way I've never you know been afraid
of death or dying you know the process
of dying or or death which for some
people are two very distinctive things
some people are not afraid of death but
are afraid of dying and that kind of
thing so for me I've you know maybe
that's why I don't relate to the kind of
you know the reasons why people cling to
you I think because you weren't raised
with this initial belief when you were a
child that like death wasn't finite you
know like a lot of like at least I was
raised that way like you you know when
you die that's not it you know like
there's something greater after you die
and of course you know I obviously I
don't believe that at all anymore like
you know it's it seems like Santa Claus
it's just some fancy some fanciful thing
to tell kids and it's just sad because
like if you grew up if you grow up not
thinking that way I think it's just I
think it's really beneficial and it's
also you know just coming back to what I
said in the beginning like it's also
beneficial for you for your parents to
have recommended like hey you can go to
these church services and choose for
yourself like what religion you know
rather than being yeah doctrine eight
into one and say like this is what you
will be I don't think they I don't think
they thought it through that much but
you know what would be the outcome of my
going and attending different route I
really don't think they thought that
through because of course they'd be
horrified if I did convert I was like a
social experiment for you to like could
have been could have been bad parenting
on their part but you you know you did
just point out one one positive aspect
of it but yeah this issue with belief in
the afterlife
I mean it fundamentally is the same as
Santa Claus because then the point is
not just you know this doesn't liberate
you it binds you yeah then you have to
leave your life beholden to the grave
then your whole life becomes defined in
terms of how you're gonna live visa vie
you know these this set of Commandments
you have to live up to or what defines
what happens after you after you die so
yeah very very strange very strange way
of thinking
I remember reading a Christian criticism
of Buddhism so I was interested in all
these things you know in all these
countries like Cambodia and Laos sure
like there were Buddhists who choose to
convert to Christianity and one of the
questions this is a Cambodian guy who
converted to Christianity from Buddhism
he said you know in Buddhism you just
have to do good deeds all the time and
it's never enough and he said in
Christianity you know you know when
you're saved so it's stuff like that Co
comfort know there's a checklist and
then I think you can't commit murder
they're a few you know you can't you're
a pen okay say you're sorry
it's really absurd but some lists
there's some checklist you can live up
to it and then be and then be confident
he said whereas you know if you believe
in Buddhism you're just kind of running
around trying to do the best you can all
the time it's you know it's terrible and
I remember reading this saying like yes
that's exactly why Buddhism is better
than Christianity you know there's no
there's none of this it's just
do good deeds all the time you know of
course I mean Buddhism as its own has
its own but I also thought of
the you know how observe the concept of
sufficient virtue you know I've done
enough yeah you know now I can just
watch football or I don't even know go
skiing whatever the third to you know
they've done enough to satisfy you know
God and heaven and the grave so nothing
more can be demanded from that that also
seems to me a very dangerous idea
you know sufficient virtue sufficient
virtue leads to leads to evil seems to
me yeah because a lot of people say like
well you know I do enough good for the
environment I have an electric car you
know so why do I need to go VII I talked
with a guy online you said very
sincerely he said I've done enough
because he'd been a gay rights activist
you know yet he was like I had 15 years
experience being a bro there for and
it's like dude you know that's not the
way it works you know it's not like you
were gay rights activist for 10 years
now you can go in your backyard and slit
the throat of a pig and watch the blood
pouring into the gutter in front of you
and be like well you but sucks to
be you Pig too bad for the environment
you had for my health too bad for this
pig it just doesn't make sense you know
yeah
alright nihilism freeform video why I
appreciate your views on nihilism and
how they affected yeah and I mean I
guess the thing is what you said earlier
was that you know when you first met me
it was it was just to challenge your
assumptions about nihilism because you
you associated nihilism with this kind
of hyper self-indulgent disillusioned
life sorry sex and drugs and alcohol
yeah and and very fundamentally just say
well you know there are no there are no
gods above me you know I'm not relying
on some legislature like Moses to write
my laws but for me that that only
increases I guess yeah the final thing
that I was thinking of I did mention
this when one day when we were walking
around is that a lot of the things that
a lot of practices of yours are commonly
associated with certain religions so not
drinking is you know so you have these
you have these things about you that
people might assume it's religious but
it's not it's really obviously you know
like do you have no belief and so it's
just it's yeah I think I think there too
you know there are two really simple
suitable whether it's you know not
drinking alcohol or living in kind of
discipline and score the lifestyle or
something yeah I mean you know I think
people can can look at that and say well
you know if you're not doing this just
for its own good
why are you doing it like would you be
doing these things just because God
tells you to or Moses right but for me I
think that the really dangerous step is
to be out there trying to do good
without even believing in good and evil
you know what and that's I mean I think
that's the precipice nihilism puts you
on but I think it's a very powerful
position to be in because you know again
even with the humanitarian work you meet
people who say like well how dare you
question X Y or Z they really believe in
things being good and evil programs or
whatever it is they're both they may
believe in the American bombing of
Vietnam is good whatever it is because
they're all kind of leaves you can
believe in that are not gods and are not
really
and so I will know I'm able to take this
you know truly skeptical position of
saying well I don't know if this is good
or evil I was involved serving you know
real-life examples approach until this
now but you know I was involved with a
humanitarian program and they were
supposedly improving agriculture to
prevent people starving and even
something as obvious is that you really
have to ask well is this good or is this
evil or do I not know yet you know when
something is extensively I mean who
could question that like you just use a
word like improvement improving
agricultural methods to help the poor of
course of course it must be good well
get involved and keep your wits about
you keep a kind of skeptical or
nihilistic attitude and you start to see
all the ways and in which it's bad you
know again this is very not vegan but
you know in one of my villages where I
did this humanitarian work the people
used to eat frogs and they would really
go out and gather frogs and mass because
a lot of these a lot of these forms of
Agriculture in Southeast Asia are in
puddled so there's the the like rice
farming where there's the water level is
called puddling the land so there's you
know so frogs come and you get a lot of
frogs living in reproducing it and
burrowing in whether it's your rice crop
or your whatever it is you're farming in
those conditions
you got intentionally wet land that way
and they would go out and kill hundreds
and hundreds or maybe you know more than
a thousand folks and then have them in
big wooden barrels which I which I saw
well then they start using improved
meaning modern meaning Western
agricultural methods now they're
spraying the crops of pesticides
reportedly I mean I can believe this
reportedly the frogs so soak up the
pesticides and people eat the frogs and
get sick now
I mean hey you know footnote obviously I
don't have hard scientific proof but
everyone there was observing this they
said oh now that we spray the the crops
as best as we can we can't heat the
frogs anymore and some things that just
disappeared from the ecosystem they said
we used to get mushrooms and these other
plants growing and this stuff is now
probably because there were fungicides
in the olden whatever they were spraying
on the crops and so on you start to see
how the whole community changes the
whole ecology changes shifting from
swidden agriculture which is actually
called shifting agriculture also moving
from sweat and agriculture to
western-style
permanent agriculture well we used to
regrow the forestry stem all this
wildlife we used to live in a different
way you know
and then you're imposing a modern
Western scheme of farming on them and so
on and I met people up there I don't
take this view I met people there who
were even challenging the idea that we
should stop these people from growing
opium they'd say well look before they
farmed OPM and this is part of the
traditional culture and now your forest
where's a modern Western belief I love
it so much anyway on that one I do
genuinely believe their communities are
improved by getting rid of opium if that
makes me feel Sophia but yeah things as
obvious as that so no I mean there's
there's there's undertaking you know to
do to do something good just because you
believe it's good you don't believe
Santa Claus is watching you you don't
believe there's a reward and your
afterlife or everything else but then
there's undertaking to do things with
the profound knowledge that the
difference between good and evil is an
idea in our own heads like the
difference between a weed and a
vegetable you know vegetables are weeds
weeds are vegetables you know you can
you can farm dandelions or you can
intentionally kill them all you know
it's just in your own mind and with the
kind of you know profound anxiety about
the limits of your own knowledge and
awareness and that you may not know
what's good or bad what's destructive or
constructive until it's until it's too
late as that whole circumstance unfolds
so that's that is what I practice and
you can see already why that's not
something that's easy to preach it's not
even in that context like it's not easy
for me to say to someone else who's
working in humanitarian work like well
you shouldn't you really shouldn't
believe in this stuff
you should remain profoundly open-minded
to the busboy that what you're doing
here is wrong and destructive and is
ruining these people's livelihoods and
is ruining their village and I new
examples that I can show you one that's
that's written up a village that was
completely depopulated that ended up
with the population abandoning the
village because of humanitarian
intervention from the French government
in Laos it's hilarious empezar and from
those people they believed they were
doing good they believed they were
lifting these people out of poverty
instead they were
taking them from poverty to homelessness
plus poverty they they completely
destroyed their village through a
humanitarian intervention all of which
could have been described I'm sure in
ideologically very pleasing terms all
right
bonus yen